Giant companies like Vit and Zapia have
used SEO as their primary growth
channel, generating millions of visitors
and leads and enabling them to grow
faster than all their huge competitors.
You see, many businesses in the SAS
space are still sleeping on SEO. And
that's why it's still such a big
opportunity. Now, over the last couple
years, me and my team at Breaking B2B
have helped dozens of SAS companies make
organic SEO a top pipeline and revenue
driver. So, in this video, I'll break
down the exact strategies that you can
use to rank organic position one for
revenue driving keywords both on Google
AI and LLMs. so you can start driving a
steady flow of organic traffic,
visitors, signups, or demos for your SAS
company. Let's dive in. First off, let's
talk about some common issues and why
you should actually consider SEO for
your SAS company. Well, many SAS
businesses completely neglect organic
search altogether and wonder why their
website's failing to drive a steady flow
of organic traffic, leads, signups, or
demos. They often focus on things like
events, paid media or outbound sales and
then wonder why companies competitors
are consistently outranking them in
organic search results on Google and now
LLMs and AI search. Or they try to do a
little bit of SEO but treat it as a
tickbox exercise. So maybe they install
a plugin like Yoast on their website.
Maybe they pump out a couple blogs with
chat GPT, leave it for a few months, and
then wonder why they're not driving
organic traffic, leads or signups. And
the answer really is they never invested
in a proper SEO strategy focused on
revenue. And many founders and
especially marketing teams on SAS
companies are stretched thin, often
overworked, and usually have dozens of
tasks on their plate each and every
week. whether that's managing several
channels or managing various goto
marketing strategies. So perhaps they've
tried SEO but never had the time to make
it a success or they simply lack the
expertise cuz they're trying to do so
much. They lack the knowledge or knowhow
or the latest best practices to give it
a good shot. And this creates a huge
opportunity for those SAS businesses
that want to do SEO right and start
ranking organic number one on Google and
LLMs for their money revenue driving
search terms. So they can reduce
reliance on paid ads, paid media and
similar. So they can start driving
organic leads, signups or demos for high
sales intent prospects that are actively
in market searching for their solution
or comparing vendors and ready to have a
sales conversation. Plus all the content
you're going to be creating has the
evergreen compounding effect. So blog
articles, landing pages, product
listicles, competitor pages, comparison
pages can rank not just now, but for
months and for years to come, providing
that evergreen effect of traffic,
visitors, leads, and organic pipeline
for your business. But if you're still
on the fence whether SEO is going to be
a good fit for your SAS company, here's
three instances where it might not be.
The first perhaps if you're funded and
your VC team is putting huge pressure on
you to drive instant results i.e. next
week or by the end of the month. Well,
even though we often see results with
breaking B2B clients as quick as 90 days
through organic search driving pipeline
and revenues, if you don't have that
runway, it's never going to be given a
fair run. So, you're probably better off
looking at paid media, potentially
network referrals, maybe outbound sales,
but SEO is not going to be given the
runway that it needs to see the impact.
Secondly, if you're in a new category
and provide a new offer that your dream
clients don't actually know exists,
meaning there's no demand capture, so
folks aren't actively searching on
Google, AI search, or LLMs for your
offer because it's completely new.
they're not aware that it actually is an
offering. In that instance, if you are
creating a brand new service, product,
or similar for your software company,
you'd be much better off working out
where your dream clients get their
trusted information, where they hang
out, where they spend their time, and
creating content to drive awareness
around the offer. Share the problem you
fix, entertain those folks, educate
them, and then when they are aware of
the solution and they're searching on
Google AI, LLMs for that kind of offer,
then it probably makes sense to invest
in an SEO program. Or lastly, maybe your
team's just super stretched thin.
Perhaps you're a solo founder or a
marketing team of one or two, and you've
got so many other tasks on your plate,
SEO could never get given the runway,
the time, the attention it deserves. Or
you just don't have the cash to work
with a contractor or agency to make it
happen. In that case, you might want to
wait until you've got the resources, or
the cash to actually give it the love,
the attention it deserves to make a
success. By the way, I speak to dozens
of SAS marketers and founders each and
every week, and many still get tired of
seeing competitors above them in organic
search results on Google and LLMs,
meaning they're missing out on a steady
stream of leads, signups, demos, and
revenue through SEO. If at any point in
this video you want help implementing
this SAS SEO strategy, why not grab a
call with me over at breakingb2.com
or hit the link in the description
below. Right, back to the strategy. So,
before I share the step-by-step tactics
to start driving pipeline and revenues
through organic search, there's
something you need to be aware of and to
avoid. I call it the traffic trap. What
the heck's the traffic trap? The traffic
trap is going for SEO where you focus on
vanity metrics like visitors and organic
traffic at all costs. What does this
look like in practice? Well, it means
going after topfunnel informationalbased
keywords like what is a CRM, how to
build a website, what is SEO. Now, these
keywords might show up on tools like HFS
or Semrush is driving tons of traffic.
But the truth is, if someone searching
for these really basic queries, they're
probably either a student, someone
that's super early on their journey and
very, very, very unlikely to ever become
a lead or a customer. Not only that, but
these kind of basic thinformational
terms are being wiped out by Google AI
overviews where you get an instant
answer above the fold without having to
click through a blue link to go to an
external website page. So folks are
getting served that information straight
away and it's not really going to drive
pipeline or inbound leads or revenue for
your company. So instead, you want to
flip that on its head and target bottom
of the funnel keywords, topics, and
phrases. We call these money keywords,
aka what would a dream client search for
on Google, AI search, or an LLM when
they're actively in market? You've
probably heard of the 955 rule. 95% of
your market are not ready to buy, but 5%
are at any given time. So, what would
that 5% search for when they're ready to
have a sales conversation? When they're
ready to sign up, grab a demo, or
compare vendors. What would they look
for on Google or an LLM when they are in
that buying mode? That's where we want
to start. These money keywords, these
money search terms that are actually
going to drive pipeline and revenues.
And often these longtail money keywords
will drive less traffic, have less
searches per month, but they're way more
likely to result in a demo, lead, or
sales conversation. All right, I'm going
to share the money keywords matrix so
you can start building out these bottom
offunnel high sales intent keywords
topics so we can start driving qualified
leads, demo signups and pipeline from
our SEO activities both on Google
organic search and moving into LLMs.
Let's dive straight in. So I've built
out this matrix here. We've got 1 2 3
four main columns plus I'll go into some
extras after the core ones. So column
one I've broken down into our main
offer, our main solution. So how do our
prospects refer to our offer? In this
example, I'm going to talk about
pretending we are a proposal software
SAS. So let's pretend we're a proposal
software company. So how do folks refer
to our offer? Well, in this instance,
they could call it proposal software,
proposal tools, proposal platform, but
perhaps you provide HR and payroll
software. So maybe it's HR software, HR
tools, payroll software, payroll
platforms, etc. Next column, column two,
what are the industries that we serve
best? The industries that historically,
if we look in our CRM or sales pipeline,
we've sold well into in the past, they
have the expensive problem we solve.
They're genuinely motivated to solve it.
Plus, most importantly, they have the
cash to easily invest in our offer. So
it could be industry sales teams, HR,
finance, fintech, etc. List down all
those money niches and industries. Next
one, competitors. Column three is
competitors. What are those competitors
that always get brought up almost to an
annoying level? There'd always be three
or four that always you get stacked up
against in those sales conversations or
they get mentioned on those signup forms
or demo forms or inquiries. So, in the
proposal world, it could be Proposify,
Panda Do, Get Accept, Quiller. Again,
list them all out. Chat to your sales
team so you've got the data you need.
And then the fourth column we'll go into
to start with what are your dream
clients jobs to be done. What are those
struggling moments? Those problems that
they face, the problems, the issues, the
frustrations they always raise on sales
calls or something they try and do
internally in house until they get so
frustrated that they need to find a new
better way perhaps because it's causing
churn or causing really long timelines
or delaying revenue or delaying pipeline
or frustrating the team or whatever else
it may be. All right. So, those are the
four columns. Offer, industry,
competitor, alternatives, and jobs to be
done, which also means struggling
moments or frustrations or problems of
your dream clients. So, what we want to
do is build these four columns out into
money, longtail keywords. Often, these
keywords are going to get less traffic
than topfunnel keywords cuz they're
bottom funnel, but they're more likely
to result in high sales intent, leads,
signups, and potential revenue. So, for
example, here we've got proposal
software. So, one keyword that might
come to mind straight away would be best
proposal software. We've also got
proposal tools. So, best proposal tools
and proposal platform, best proposal
platform. But those keywords are going
to be super competitive. They're going
to have big players like Panda do,
Quilla, and my friends at Proposify
ranking for those. So, instead, you
might want to niche down. And that's
where we weave in our industry terms.
So, we'd make longer tail keywords.
things like best proposal software for
sales teams or proposal software for HR
teams or proposal software for finance.
And likewise, we can do that for each
each variation. So proposal tools for
HR, proposal tools for sales team,
proposal tools for finance. The whole
point of this money keywords matrix is
to exhaust that bottom of funnel. Work
out all these money longtail keywords
that your dream clients might search for
when they need your offer and make sure
we're nailing these first before moving
up the funnel. Moving on to the
competitor column. These are great.
These work because as you probably know
in B2B folks rarely go with the first
option, first vendor they find. They
normally make a short list and compare
three or four vendors before they're
ready to move forward. So if you can
rank for terms like competitor
alternative, competitor pricing,
competitor reviews, it gives you a
chance to show up and then position
yourself within that article, within
that landing page as a new better
solution and show where you outshine the
competitor, which we'll dive into a
little later in this video. and episode.
So in this case, we could rank for
things like Panda alternatives or Panda
pricing or Panda do reviews and the same
for get except and the same for Quiller.
And another way to do this that works
pretty well is going versus. So if
there's companies you're often stacked
up against, you could do things like
Panda versus Quilla or Quiller versus
Proposify. And again, you could even put
yourself as the third option there. So
you the article is talking about
competitor one versus competitor 2 and
then you shine a light. You say these
these guys do well here and here. But
they often fall short we hear on sales
conversations with X and Y. And this is
where I our product where our SAS or our
solution really outshines them. And then
you'd weave in like customer quotes,
customer review videos, social proof and
then offer a free sign up or CTA for
demo. And then column number four, jobs
to be done. What are those struggling
moments, those problems, those
frustrations? how some done in house
until they get really annoyed. So in the
proposal software space that might be
how to write proposals that convert,
reduce sales proposals time and how to
close more sales quotes. There'll be
dozens of others. This is just a quick
example. Now these are more top offunnel
moreformational based terms but the more
specific the more crisp that you can
get. The good thing about these terms is
it introduces the problem. So someone
has that struggling moment. They might
be searching to fix it in that article.
We can then say, look, this is one way
you can get the job done. Perhaps if you
want to reduce sales proposal time, you
could get a template in Google Docs,
whatever, but it's still going to take
you a long time. Instead, with our SAS,
with our software, then maybe you have a
gift of the aha moment where it just
takes three clicks. You can easily grab
one of our pre-formatted beautiful
templates. All you got to do is put in
some information. AI does the rest. And
within two minutes, you've got a
beautiful proposal that speaks to your
buyer pain points, their struggling
moments, and shows exactly how your
product can solve this solution. I hope
you like my little proposal ad there.
So, that's why these jobs to be done
articles work really well. One, because
they speak to pain points. Two, because
they shine a light on the problem, the
way the prospect is getting the job done
today. And then introduce your product
as a new, better way. Plus, they build
out something called topical authority
where you can have internal links to
your main product landing pages or other
blog pages as well. So, it helps with a
general SEO boost. Plus, these work
really well for LLMs on those really
specific queries. So, if someone's
searching for something like, I need to
write a solid proposal that's going to
convert this audience struggling with
this pain point and they need it within
this time frame. I'm actually looking
for proposal software that can help me
do this. And if you're talking about all
these points within your article and
you've gone super in-depth, you know
your ICP, you've done your research and
more, then you can start ranking because
you've written that article so in-depth,
you can start showing up in the LLMs. So
those are the main four that I'd start
with bottom of funnel and really exhaust
those. Then if you want to start moving
up the funnel, then you can start
looking at things like midfunnel
offerings. So that could be useful
assets that folks might search for when
they're not ready to buy now, but
they're probably maybe a halfway along
their journey. Then in the proposal
example, they might search for something
like sales proposal checklists or sales
proposal templates or sales proposal
examples or sales quote templates. And
usually these are going to be blog
articles where you can talk a bit about
the problem that someone might be
facing. Introduce your solution. Then
give them a downloadable asset. Perhaps
it's gated where they give you their
name and work email and then you can
send them the asset and then nurture
them over time or even retarget them
with ads. And again, if you want to show
up in LLMs and AI search, make sure
these are super useful. Make sure you've
done your customer research and you
attack real pain points. Really speak to
your ICP and get as granular and as
detailed as possible. And then lastly,
you've probably heard of a small company
like Zapia. You know, the one that drove
millions in traffic with a programmatic
SEO strategy. So they went down the
integrations route. They talked a lot
about every single integration that
their dream clients might be searching
for and made a ton of programmatic pages
following a similar template to start
ranking for each and every one. Now you
don't necessarily have to go down the
programmatic route. But if integrations
are a big piece of the puzzle for your
SAS, for your software, then why not
work out all the integrations that folks
actually care about and build a
dedicated page for each and every one.
So within each one you can show up for
those integration search terms. And the
thing is someone might be struggling
with that particular integration. If
your software offers it, you can say,
"Look, this is exactly how you can do
it." And then introduce your software.
Show how you make it so much easier, how
it easily connects. Maybe weave in some
customer social proof and examples and
customer quotes talking about why they
chose you because of the specific
integration. Then drive folks to a free
sign up or a demo. And as an example
what that actually looks like, it could
be things like integrate HubSpot with
proposify or Trello plus Slack
integration or Google Sheets and HubSpot
integration to give you the gist. All
right. So once we've made our exhaustive
list of money keywords, the next thing
we want to do from a Google perspective
is to quite literally search for one of
those focus money keywords that we want
to start ranking for and driving leads
pipeline demos or signups and revenue.
So in this instance, this is called
something called assessing the intent.
So what we're doing here is we're
googling one of our targeted keywords.
So I've Googled best fan engagement
platform.
What we're doing here is we want to see
what type of page, in this case, Google
favors, whether it's a landing page, an
article, comparison, listical, or
something else. So we can see what takes
up most of the real estate from other
sites that already ranking. So we know
the type of page that we should build.
that's probably going to rank pretty
well on Google. So in this case, best
fan engagement platform. This was one we
recently ranked our SAS client cortex
tech top four. So we can see the best
five fan engagement platforms for sports
organizations if you're watching here.
But we can see most of the things are
ranking are things like best fan
engagement platforms, five of the best.
So the majority of the rankings here
look to be product listicicals. So in
that case, that's what we did. And you
can see in the AI overview as well that
Cortex have got them mentioned there and
also in the top links on the far right.
You can click through to Cortex. So
you've got the AI overview as well as
the top result. So when you know what
type of page you need to build, in this
case an article or product listical for
your money keyword, you can make a note
of it in your money keywords matrix.
Then all you want to do is go into
what's ranking already. So let's pretend
this is one of our competitors top
ranking pages. is I'd probably look at
the top two or three top ranking organic
pages and we want to assess how they're
built up. Look for gaps in the page so
we can one up those pages in this case a
product listical article in every angle
possible. So a few quick things you can
do. You can look at a extension which
this one is called SEO pro extension
which is free for Chrome. And this
actually shows you the basic buildup of
the page and you can also see things
like how much word count it is, the H1
of the page, metad description and a
bunch of other useful info. A few things
to mention before we dive into the
structure in this case the article
structure. So firstly, when it comes to
SAS SEO, a lot of technical SEO is
overhyped and a lot of it is BS because
the majority of SAS websites, especially
when they're starting out on an SEO
program, they're very thin on content.
They maybe have 5 to seven pages total
or a very thin blog. So overindexing on
technical SEO, messing around with image
alt tags, worrying about getting a 0.01%
0 0.1% faster page speed isn't going to
move the needle in terms of getting
rankings, getting traffic, driving leads
and signups anywhere near as much as a
focus on content. So, as long as you
know the technical basics, technical SEO
basics, you're going to be okay. So, in
this case, if we wanted to rank for,
let's say, best fan engagement
platforms, then what we do is we'd
include that focus keyword.
If we go back to our metatitle and
description in the search engine results
page. So include that within our metad
description, our meta title rather. So
include that within our metatitle, the
five best fan engagement platforms for
sports organizations.
We include that in our heading one
title. We include that in our URL. So
ourdomain.com
slash then our money keyword. So in this
case for cortex tech.io/by
fan hyphen engagement hyphen platform.
So each word is separated by a hyphen or
a dash. So, we've got that, got the URL,
got the meta title, meta description
with our focus keyword within and
ideally within that meta title. We want
to make it engaging, enticing for
someone to click through. So, in this
case, we've got the five best fan
engagement platforms for sports
organizations, but you could put
something like the five best fan
engagement platforms to improve XYZ or
to boost XYZ or whatever that kind of
value based outcome is you want to help
get more clickthroughs.
So do the URL, do the meta title and
description, do the H1. Aside from that,
you want to break up your headings. So
those could be H2s or H3s.
Usually on a an article page or a
landing page in general, you want four
to five internal links. So other pages
linking through to this page, whether
those are landing pages or relevant
niche relevant articles. And likewise,
this page to link back to other useful
articles or landing pages or product
pages we want to send folks to. And
aside from that, on the technical SEO
side of things, as long as you've got a
website that loads quickly, ideally
within a couple seconds or less, that
works smoothly on mobile, tablet, and
PC, that you're including your money
keyword within the URL, within the meta
title and description, and within that
H1. You only want one H1, one heading,
one tag per page. And you're naturally
weaving in your money keyword within the
body copy. Not jamming it in, not
forcing it in, but weaving it in
naturally. Those are the main things.
And the other points I'm going to talk
about are going to help you with the UX,
making sure the page actually converts
and some best practices. So in this
case, we're talking about a product
list. So the five best fan engagement
platforms, but yours might be something
like the 10 best or the 20 best or the
10 best proposal software tools for 2025
or whatever your product category is.
And usually I like to employ a blowout
the water strategy when it comes to
building a page cuz I don't want to mess
around constantly updating the page cuz
competitors outranking me. So if I see
that my competitors doing the five best
in this case XYZ tools for 2025 I'd say
I might as well do 10 best 15 best or 20
best so I can make something that's
going to be more useful more helpful
evaluate more options so folks as well
as Google think mine is the most useful
piece of content on the internet so
usually how these type of articles go is
you position your product as number one
and then you do a fair comparison as as
the other of the other options. Now many
SAS companies get these type of pages
wrong. They just talk about how great
they are, how awesome they are, etc. So
instead, I'd encourage you to leverage
customer research. So getting info from
prospect calls, sales calls, customer
success calls, support calls to really
lean into the problems that you solve
that others don't. Why folks opt for
your software over others and weaving in
real customer quotes. And the other
thing is you don't want your article to
be a wall of text that just causes
someone to land on the page and think,
"Flipping heck, this is a painful piece
to read. It's just textheavy." We want
to weave in plenty of product visuals.
Show the aha moment when our product
clicks into play, whether that's a gift
for video or similar. And plenty of
proof. So, social quotes, testimonials,
customer review videos, and more, and
clear CTAs. And we usually encourage you
to have a sticky table of context fixed
to the left or right side, as well as a
sticky call to action, whether that's
sign up for our newsletter, maybe if
it's a topfunnel informationbased
article, or a book a demo or a book a
call fixed CTA on the left or right hand
side, so folks can easily get in touch.
And likewise a sticky main menu nav so
folks can easily direct themsel to the
rest of your site and again book a demo
from that top menu nav that's going to
be sticky as you scroll. And one thing
we like to do on articles in general is
at the start do a helpful summary or why
trust us piece as this can get picked up
by tools like Google AI overviews and
then we'll talk about things like why
listen to us what a fan engagement
platforms about or in your case what our
XYZ category or tool or software is
about. bit of an intro and then we'll
lean into the comparison list where
we'll position ourselves number one,
show why folks would choose us, talk
about our pros, talk about our cons,
weave in images of our product, etc.,
and then go through the other examples
with a fair summary. We don't want to
slate our competitors. We don't want to
call them out for for bad things or
anything like that. We want to give a
fair assessment. We don't want any legal
suits or anything like that. And then as
we get to the bottom of the article, we
want another nice CTA for folks to
easily take that relevant next step. And
here's another example for another type
of page format. So instead of an
article, I'm going to show you a landing
page. So this is one we got our client,
the B2B playbook ranking super well for
demand genen course. Actually outranked
HubSpot and some other kind of real big
giants. So in the AI overviews, they've
got a mention here B2B playbook and a
link through and also a clickth through
just under the AI overview. And then
they're actually organic position two.
who it looks like in the UK and I think
they're top or near there in the US in
Australia. But if we look at this page
again, these folks are trying to rank
for demand gen demand generation course.
So you can see demand generation courses
in their meta title and description. So
they've got the heading one tag with the
main keyword in. They've got a nice
value prop underneath that talks about
their demand generation course. They've
got the embedded YouTube video. They've
got clear call to actions that
descriptive to apply for the cohort.
Straight away underneath they've got
some nice social proof with reviews that
are pulled from happy clients from
LinkedIn. Then they've got a urgency
call to action to apply before the
deadline. They're weaving in their money
keyword around demand genen, but they're
not forcing it. And they're using nice
graphics, plenty of visuals to keep it
engaging. Talking about a framework I
love for landing pages is PAS. So
problem agitation solutions. Start with
the problem that your dream clients are
facing based on customer research. what
you hear on prospecting, sales calls,
support calls, what gets brought up on
on boarding, like what were those
struggling moments? Lean into those. So
in this case, they talk about are you
struggling to drive leads and revenue
with demand genen? Struggling to do
this, struggling to do this, constantly
in battle in this case with doing busy
work, checklist marketing, etc. with a
nice image. And then they say, look,
focus on being first choice, not just a
click with demand genen. Then they're
talking about the problem with leads,
what demand generation does instead. to
the new better way with their demand
generation course. Then they've got a
nice comparison table. So this is life
without our course and this is life with
it with a nice breakdown and summary of
each call to action sprinkled across.
And then they lean into the in their
case their training program. Talk about
what's entailed. Again, lots and lots of
nice visuals and screenshots of the
product in action. So lots of SAS
companies tend to be scared of actually
showing the product, but folks want to
see under the bonnet of your offer.
Whether that's gifts, videos, live
demos, make sure you actually show what
folks want to see when it comes to the
offer, what they care about learning,
doing those main feature points. And
then they dive into more depth
throughout the course. In this case,
about the resources that you get about
each breakdown of each element of the
course, plenty of screenshots and
visuals. Then they've got more proof and
what you get as an outcome. Then a
drilled down kind of feature-based
template and then an option to again
apply with in this case their form that
you can easily fill in. And then what I
really love as well at the bottom of
this landing page is FAQs. So having
FAQs at the bottom of your form is good
for a number of reasons. One, for LLMs
and AI, so you've got the really
granular data that someone might search
for, really granular queries that you
can impact head-on that someone might
search for within an LLM engine. Also
super good for Google because it shows
that you've got useful content. You're
adearing to a framework called EAT,
experience, expertise, authority, trust,
and SEO to one side. It helps with sales
enablement because if you address the
really painful, difficult questions that
your sales team are getting and you
address them on their landing page
before they even come up in a sales
call, it's going to save everyone time.
So in this case for their demand
generation course, they've got what will
I learn? Who is this for? Who's it not a
good fit for? Do you have a business
case for leadership? How much is it? Do
you have a returns policy? So if you're
providing SAS software, all this stuff
is relevant. So you could say like
what's your ramp up time? What's the
refund policy? How do you stack up
against this competitor? Do I get an
dedicated account manager? All these
kind of harsh questions your sales team
going to get anyway. Address them head
on your landing page. It builds trust,
shows transparency, it kicks, it weeds
out tire kickers. So, it saves everyone
time, helps your prospect move forward
or weed them out if they're a poor fit.
Helps your sales team and encourages
folks to take that relevant next step if
they are a good match, whether that's
grabbing a demo, a sign up, or booking a
call. And at the end of the page,
they've got another form to get in touch
or book onto it and plenty of social
proof. In their case, customer quotes
pulled from LinkedIn, customer review,
YouTube videos embedded, and then to
wrap up, they've got their 60-day money
back guarantee. So, some really nice
best practices on that landing page, top
to bottom, taking those basic SEO
fundamentals, and then also putting the
customer first. So leveraging customer
research going problem agitation
solution plenty of proof plenty of
showing the product in action and
calling folks to action throughout. And
last example on assessing page intent is
a midfunnel search query. So if you
search B2B SAS SEO case study we're
ranking kind of top three or so right
now we fluctuate between one and three
breaking B2B. So, we've got a blog
article for the top B2B SAS SEO case
studies where we showcase a bunch of our
SAS client case studies with exactly how
we got the results and then weaving in
YouTube video embeds of that client
testimonial and the breakdown. But the
other beautiful thing here is if you're
watching on video, you'll see that in
the video section before you even get to
the search engine results straight away
you're shown three videos pulled from
YouTube and two out of those three
videos are SAS SEO case studies. So
where we talk to the client, talks
through your strategy, they share the
results, they share the impact it had.
So this is really powerful if you're
going for money keywords. If you can
rank for both an article or a landing
page or whatever type of page it is you
need to build out, plus make a dedicated
YouTube video for the topic. So you can
show in that video section, you can get
more real estate on Google. So you could
potentially get a Google ad for one
spot, then three spots with a video,
that's four. Then another spot for your
page, that's five. but you can actually
get one more spot. So you could get up
to six spots. So in this case, sometimes
for some queries, you can actually rank
for a landing page and an article. So
really powerful way to actually own the
search engine results pages and
encourage more clickthroughs, drive more
brand awareness, and make it more likely
to drive that inbound opportunity. And a
quick tip on internal linking is to make
a list of your top 20% important pages.
So that could be landing pages, high
converting blog posts and articles, and
try and get them to around 80% of the
internal links that you're using
throughout your pages. And to actually
find out where these are, you can check
out the links tab within Google Search
Console to see the current distribution.
So let's pretend you've done my blow out
the water strategy to make the best
possible piece of content, best possible
page on the topic on the internet. Maybe
some of your pages are starting to rank
30, 60, 90 days later. Normally, you say
give it 90 days after publishing for
Google to fully crawl and index a page.
But maybe for some of the more
competitive search terms, keywords and
topics, perhaps you're struggling to
rank. Perhaps in Google's instance,
you're ranking at the bottom of page one
or page two. This is where the dark art
of SEO. Yes, I'm talking about link
building comes into play. Some say
they're dead. Some pay for them, some
beg for them, some steal for them. But
from what we've seen at breaking B2B,
link building is still a big piece of
the SEO puzzle to rank for those money
keywords. And it's worth mentioning that
backlinks are less important when it
comes to LLMs and ranking on AI
searches, but they do go after brand
mentions. So if your company can be
mentioned along with your category, i.e.
Proposify and Proposal software, then
that can start giving you a boost in the
visibility side of things for LLMs. So,
if when you're earning back links, you
can make sure you're employing that
strategy as well. You can look to get an
organic boost both in Google search and
start gaining more visibility and
traction in the LLMs. Right, let's dive
into these strategies. The first
strategy is partnerships. One of my
favorite plays. So basically finding
companies that target the same ICP, same
ideal client profile as yourself but are
not direct competitors. Make a list of
all these businesses, companies, they
could be in software, they could be
external agencies, they could be
elsewhere. I'll give you an actual
example. So at breaking B2B, we partner
with a LinkedIn ads agency called
Impactable. So I actually saw their
founder originally on LinkedIn. I
reached out to him after a while as a
fairly light touch intro. So his name is
Justin. I said, "Hey Justin, have a bit
of a weird idea to ramp up your site
traffic and potential inbounds. Are you
against a brief conversation?" So I'd
like to lead with curiosity in these
messages. And he probably thought, "What
the heck is Sam on about?" So he
responded saying something like, "Yeah,
what what are you thinking, Sam?" And in
this case, the partnership play is for
us to build out a guest piece of
content. So, a guest article to publish
on their blog. In this case, I wrote
something useful that benefited both
their audience and ours and in return
asked for a backlink to one of our money
keyword pages. And this is something you
can do exactly the same. So, you can
make a a short list, fire up a Google
sheet, make a list of companies that are
going after that same ideal client
profile as yourself. And maybe each each
day you reach out to one or two perhaps
through LinkedIn or perhaps through
another channel depending on when these
where these folks hang out on. Lead with
a painfully short message that peaks the
curiosity gap. And then once they
connect, then see if they're open to you
creating a guest article or blog for
them. Really low lift way to get quality
back links or potentially brand mentions
as well. Plus, the beauty of building
partners is that it goes into so much
more than SEO. So, you might create some
video content together, maybe eventually
do a podcast together, and then maybe
eventually you start setting up a
partnership program. So you send
business their way, you send leads their
way, or they send leads your way, or you
get a kickback for intros you send your
way. So it can lead onto so much more
from a business perspective than just
the initial SEO boost. Strategy number
two, again, this is an awesome one. This
is using podcasts. So guesting on niche
relevant podcasts to earn back links,
but again, you get so much more just
like the partnership play. So I
recommend going onto a site like
listennotes.com
and all you do is quite literally search
for the category that your audience is
hanging out in a niche relevant category
to your audience. Mine is B2B marketing
or SAS marketing as we work with a lot
of SAS marketers and B2B marketers but
yours might be fintech, finance, retail,
sports, whatever category your actual
idol clients are hanging out and likely
to listen or watch into. Search for that
category. Then you can filter it to the
top 5, 10, 2.5% shows. This case, you
can see Breaking B2B showing up top here
for B2B marketing our podcast. And then
what I do is I'd reach out to folks. The
good thing about here is you can click
in into each show. You can see who hosts
each show and then you can connect with
them on LinkedIn. Similar strategy to
the partnership play. So what I do is
I'd make a short list of some of the top
shows I want to guest on. Check that
they've got recent episodes within list
and notes and they're still active.
Start with the top 10%, top 5%, top 2.5%
ones. Again, send the the host of the
show a painfully short message like,
"Hey Steve," or "Hey Janice, enjoyed
your recent show on XYZ. Had a weird
idea for your podcast. Are you against a
conversation?" When they accept, if it's
LinkedIn or if they reply on email,
whatever channel you're going down, I
usually take the time to create a Loom
video or actually go on their podcast
page and then I will say, "Look, enjoy
your recent show or I like this topic
you've talked about recently. I had
actually two different ideas for your
show. One was on X, one was on Y. I
think this could be use for your
audience. And also, I'm going to promote
it after the fact to, let's say, my
LinkedIn audience. I'm going to promote
it to my email list, etc. So, share
what's in it for them. Maybe run ads to
it, whatever. And then a good chunk of
those will be open to it because you've
taken the time to send them a
personalized video. And then when you
record the podcast episode, make sure
it's super useful and tactical. And then
when they publish the podcast article
page, ask them to mention your company
name and your category and also give a
backlink, a do follow backlink to one of
your money keywords and pages. So the
good thing about it is not only do you
get an SEO boost, you get a PR boost,
but you're also talking in front of
ideal clients. So you're piggybacking on
this audience that you've not tapped
into before. You can even get potential
leads from folks watching or listening
to that podcast you're guesting on.
Really powerful strategy. Third
strategy, a really awesome low lift one
again is fire up a tool like HR, Sumrush
or whatever uses your SEO tool. Copy and
paste a LinkedIn profile from whoever on
your team, whether that's your founder,
marketing leader, sales leader, revenue
leader, or another exec on your team,
whoever's done the most past press. So
whether they've been involved in a lot
of interviews, podcast episodes, they've
contributed to other blogs, whatever it
may be. Find out whoever's done that. If
anyone on your team copy and paste their
LinkedIn URL into HS or Semrush, then
filter it to click the backlinks tab.
You can also filter it then to the sites
with the highest domain rating or domain
authority and then look for all the
relevant sites that have cited your
founder, your exact, whoever it is, but
they've probably only linked to your
LinkedIn profile. So, this is going to
show all those articles, all those
pages, all that past press. Look for all
the ones that are relevant that are
relevant to your niche and that have
good domain rating, i.e. ideally kind of
40 plus if there are some a bit lower
doesn't matter too much and then reach
out to whoever was the author of the
article or page and again find out
whatever channel they're on if it's
email or it could be LinkedIn message
and you can just drop them a super short
message like hey Alice hey Steve thanks
again for featuring our founder on this
article wondered if you could quickly
change this link to this money keyword
with a do follow link to this page and
if you can mention our company plus our
category. That would be much
appreciated. And most of those folks are
going to be absolutely happy to do that
because they've already taken the time
to do that piece of press. If you do
need to do something in return, maybe
you offer something low lift like you
allow them to do a guest article on your
show or you invite them onto a podcast,
whatever it may be. But most folks will
already be fine to make that very small
tweak. And then this is going to give
you a super big boost for a really
loweffort task. So when I started
breaking B2B, we had a fresh website
with zero domain authority. One of the
first things I did was this. look for
all the sites that already linking to
us, but maybe to my LinkedIn profile or
to the wrong page and then reached out
to all those site owners, the the
authors, etc. Ask them to tweak the do
follow back links with this process that
I've shared and that gave us a nice
boost in domain rating in a pretty short
time and enabled us as part of the
strategy to start showing up for our
money keywords as quick as 90 days and
driving pipeline inbound. So, it really
shows there's proof of the pudding there
and that's helped us rank for some
competitive terms flowing following our
blowout the water strategy, following
this link building strategy and couple
other plays we've shared, we've been
able to rank for really money terms like
SAS SEO agency, B2B SAS SEO agency so we
can show clients that we're practicing
what we preach. And the last one super
relevant for SAS companies is getting
featured on external sites that have
product listicles. I.e. Going back to
the proposal software example, if we ran
a proposal software SAS, we might try
and get features on external sites that
have articles for things like we
reviewed the top 10 proposal software
companies for 2025. We might make a
short list of the companies that are
ranking pretty well with these listicles
and then we'd reach out to the author
with again a similar email flow or reach
out to them on LinkedIn with a similar
flow to what we've talked about already.
A painfully short message that peaks the
curiosity gap. Hey XYZ, had an unusual
idea for your product list on this
topic. Wondered if you'd be against us
sharing what we had in mind. So we're
we're going after the response. And then
it may be that some of them might want
cash for you to be featured, but some
might be open to a trade. So perhaps you
include their company in your own
article or product listical breakdown.
Or some might be open to if you've got a
podcast guesting on that or guesting on
another piece of content together. So,
it's more of a time and resource trade
opposed to a money trade. And the good
thing about that, it gives you an SEO
boost with a backlink, but also getting
featured on niche relevant, category
relevant listicles with your category
and your brand name again gives you that
nice boost in the LLMs and AI search.
And a few final points to wrap up. Your
big advantage, your huge advantage as a
SAS company is that most of the giant
competitors in your space are going to
be slow moving. When I say slowmoving,
they might be building out their money
keywords and topics. That might take
them several weeks or months. They might
need to then design the page framework.
That might take them a couple weeks.
Work on the content with multiple execs
back and forth and another few weeks.
Build out the page design another few
weeks and eventually get it past legal
and then eventually publish it. So, you
could be talking three, four, five
months or even longer. I've seen for
mid-market and enterprise companies to
actually get pages out the door and
published. Meanwhile, your fastm moving
SAS could have done all that process
within a matter of days or weeks. So
publishing money content following this
strategy that we've shared at speed is
going to be your cheat code to start
outranking huge competitors and start
making a dent ranking organically in
Google and the LLMs and start driving
quality visibility, mind share, organic
traffic, clickthroughs, signups, demos
and revenue. And if you have this
publishing at speed mindset, you got to
bear in mind that Google can take up to
90 days to properly index a page. So you
can see how the rankings are settling.
And then you can assess whether these
pages need slight improvement or
optimizations to get the top spot or
whether they're good to go and you can
keep plowing on with the rest of your
topics. So, if you keep getting money
content out the door, you can start
chipping away at those slowmoving giant
competitors and driving a steady flow of
organic traffic, building mind share for
your category, and start driving those
all important inbound leads, signups,
and demos. And there you have it. That's
the full strategy we've used to help SAS
companies drive millions in pipeline and
revenue through SEO. If you watched or
listened this far, you're probably quite
serious about making SEO a solid
strategy for your SAS business. And if
so, there's two routes you can go down.
One route is trying to do it internally
and trying to tackle it inhouse. In
which case, head to breaking b2tb.com,
hit that newsletter tab, and you can
grab my 90 days to revenue SAS SEO guide
and try and go ahead and work on it
internally. Or the second might be you
lack internal resources or perhaps your
marketing team is stretched thin already
and you want a solid partner to start
driving pipeline and revenue through SEO
and through LLMs for your SAS business.
In which case, head over to
breakingb2b.com.
You can book a call with myself and we
can talk through exactly where you're
starting at and where you'd like to get
to with SEO and see if we can start
driving pipeline and revenue for your
business. So, hit the link in the
description below or head over to
breaking b2b.com and I'll be happy to
chat through with you or you can check
out the breaking B2B podcast for more
useful episodes around SEO. And with
that, I shall catch you on the next one.
Ch.